What isn’t included in my resume is I grew up working in construction for my father's plumbing company in NJ where I am from.  I was with him on job sites as young as 5 years old doing simple things like sanding and cleaning copper pipe fittings and finding leaks.  Also at 5 I think it is important to note that I began classes for reading and writing music, drum lessons and formal computer classes.


By 10 I was designing and printing coupons for my father's plumbing business and placing them in the newspapers I delivered for my local paper route.


At 10 I was accepted to Princeton Prep but did not score high enough for a full paid scholarship and my parents decided I should stay in the Private Catholic School I was already attending bc it was not as expensive. I do credit St. Anthony's school (attended from K-11) as the foundation to my faith, morals and higher education which I am so grateful for and made a huge impact on my life and career.


At 15 I got my first formal employment working as a busboy in Amici's Restaurant in Trenton NJ.  


At 16 I started building computers for multi track recording and started a record label which I successfully ran until I was 23.  The label was called ATAKA Records.


At 17 I had my first job in Real Estate as a cold caller and lead generator for a local realtor.  I did this successfully for 3 months until I learned that it was not legal for them to hire me underage for Real Estate canvassing and being an unlicensed broker doing canvassing.  Also illegal was the lead generation system I developed using the white pages to only target homes on affluent streets in the area.


At 17 I worked for the Doral Forrestal hotel in Princeton as a Valet and Bellman.


By my senior year in High School I began getting clients for web and print design.


The Sept following graduating High School, I started college.  I attended fulltime and took classes for Radio, Choir, Piano, Music Theory and Marketing.  By April, my freshman year, I dropped out and never went back to college.
My GPA was a 3.8. 


At 18 I completed my training and passed the state test to be hired by the USPS where I would direct mail to its final destination.  I was trained to do this by receiving images of parcels on a terminal and typing the information on the front of the parcels in shorthand.  I found the job to be extremely repetitive and not a good fit.


At 19 I was hired to work in the detail shop for the local Lincoln Dealership and within 2 months earned my first management position as their Lot Manager and oversaw the detail shop, delivery of new vehicles, and delivery of used/trade in vehicles to the local auctions.


At 20 I co-founded a business with a single partner for printing the sticker labels that go inside the windows of used cars at dealerships giving details about the vehicles and their pricing. Also as part of the service we took pictures of the vehicles and posted the pictures and details of the vehicles from the window stickers we made on the dealerships website (creating a web page for every vehicle), created an ebay auction for every vehicle, and created the ad for the local newspaper and submitted it to the local newspaper for every vehicle.  My partner lived an hour from me and within an 8 month period of marketing in our local markets we picked up a combined total of 20 clients.  I outfitted my full size bronco with a computer to be able to create the labels on site. I also outfitted my vehicle with a mobile print station to print the window stickers on site. And I outfitted my vehicle with satellite internet to be able to upload the vehicles info and pictures to the internet, create the web pages and auction pages listed above and create the newspaper ads and submit them as well while on site at the dealership.  I cofounded this business BC I thought it would be a lot of fun to do and it was.  I also needed to wait another year until I was 21 to be able to continue my true interest and passion at the time which was my record label and 2 active recording studios.  I could not work in the local bar scene to throw shows until I was 21 and throwing shows at other venues that couldn't serve alcohol was something I did for many years successfully until I was of age for the bars.


At 21 I was able to work in the local bars so I worked for the biggest one in my hometown Trenton. The bar was owned by the Drummer from Cheap Trick. His daughter Heather and I ran the operations. ( the song “Surrender” was actually written about her from the pressure on family from the bands touring and fame )  I very quickly was able to bring the fans of my label to the bar and make it into a successful show house and now it is a popular stop for bands on tour through the area.  It's called Champions Bar.


At 21 I joined a cover band named Cheap Date as their DJ and live sound/lighting coordinator.  Our most notable performance was opening up for ZZ-Top at the local arena in Trenton. As a band we also organized and hosted a number of charity events.


As a Live DJ from 21-28, I was hired to DJ many weddings, bar mitzvahs, graduations, etc etc.  My stage name is DJ DROP.  I still release mixes to this day as DJ DROP but I am not for hire as a live DJ anymore.


At 22 I realized that running a bar, throwing shows and working late nights was simply not a healthy lifestyle and I decided to continue running my studios and managing/booking the artists on my label and also find a stable base employment to invest more into my label.


At 22 I became a security guard at a local hospital and psych ward.


At the same time I started at the hospital I became a co-partner of a small business which offered entertainment booking and event services to venues. Me and my partner had steady work and I usually worked weekends at our events when I wasn't working at the hospital. 


It was a successful partnership but between working some nights at the hospital and working weekend nights for bookings and events, it was just still too much night work for me so I left my partnership and the hospital security job at the same time after only 6 months and decided to pursue Real Estate and Property Management.


At 22.5 I started my classes to get my New Jersey Real Estate License so I could work under my Aunt and her successful Real Estate career.


At the same time I partnered with a General Contractor and we started a property management company called All Class General Contracting.  We were able to get several property management accts and the business was a success very quickly.  Unfortunately the best contracts involved roofing work which I felt was very dangerous and I quickly decided to leave this partnership and put my full focus on clienteling.


From 22.5-23.5 I worked under my Aunt as a licensed realtor and for Chrysler as an Internet Sales Manager. I was originally hired as a car salesman at Chrysler.  They were also my biggest account for my used car window sticker and used vehicle fulfillment business listed above.  I quickly became the Internet Sales Manager which is listed on my resume.


At 23.5 - in October 2006 -  I moved to Orange County.  Briefly in Costa Mesa and then I have lived in Downtown Huntington Beach for the majority of the time I have lived in Orange County.


At 23.5 within days of my arriving in Southern California, I began to work as a plumbers apprentice for Lyle Lint, the owner of Lyle Lint Plumbing.  Lyle is a dear friend and I credit him with giving me the ability to establish my permanent residency in Downtown Huntington Beach.


I worked as Lyles' apprentice until I was offered the opportunity to work for Main Street Trading as a cold caller a month before my 24th birthday.  This marked the beginning of my career in finance which is listed on my resume.


At 24 - What is not listed on my resume regarding my work at Main Street Trading and worth noting is that I started as a cold caller.
Within 3 months of being hired the owner made me his apprentice.
By the 4th month I passed the Series 3 testing to become a licensed Commodity Specialist. 
At 25 the owner promoted me to run my own trading desk and a 5 million dollar book of clients. 
At 26 the owner gave me and another associate our own brokerage.  
Unfortunately my time as the partner of a brokerage was short lived bc by the end of the first year, which was successful, the government started aggressively moving commodity operations to Chicago and New York to consolidate the economic fallout of The Recession.  I chose to not move and subsequently we decided it was best to fold the brokerage and not cause rifts in the government and put our focus back on making sure Main Street Trading did not fall under the pressure to also leave the area or shut down.


At 27.5, during the last year I worked at Main Street Trading, I had a client for design work for their magazine and the magazines website.  After losing my brokerage I felt like the Govt pressure to move Commodity Specialists out of the area was too risky to oppose with my mentors, so I left Main Street Trading to work full time at the magazine as the Executive Producer by title but handled production, design, sales, marketing and distribution.  The magazine was called Amerikidz Magazine and we serviced Orange County and Temecula County. I printed and distributed over a million copies of the quarterly magazine all over Southern California.


I left the magazine after a few years to start a school to teach people how to properly trade the worldwide markets because I could see the print industry was coming to an end and quite frankly I missed my career in finance.  After searching out a few potential business partners to open the trading school with, I settled with the one I felt was the best fit and we founded T3 Trading Systems, which is listed on my resume.


What is not on my resume regarding T3 is I was able to modify the algorithms and FinTech I created to teach my trading students. I can now use them to predict sports trends for handicapping. Also the charting algorithms and news algorithms I made for my trading students helped me identify the bottom of the precious metals market while I was at Monex, (on my resume). At Monex I educated many investors how to use my custom made trading algorithms and I delivered to them 10s of millions of dollars of physical precious metals and pneumatic (rare) coins when Gold, Silver, Platinum and Palladium were at their bottom. My clients in precious metals are all very profitable today bc of the education and algorithms they received from me.  I am now starting to code those same algorithms to find new trends starting worldwide in interior design and architecture.


My partner at T3, who I marketed as the face of our school because he was older and the age of my target clientele, decided he did not want to receive attention anymore and wanted to trade the systems we developed himself.  Also this decision was triggered by one of our employees falsely claiming he recreated our algorithms and smear my partner and I online in an attempt to also take our students so he can charge them again.  We shut down the school and that employee was banned from ever being able to receive a fiduciary type license in the USA and in the UK where he had an accomplice to do this.


Also worth noting that President Trump and his son reached out several times to speak to my partner and I about doing something on TV.  That happened after I got a small booth in Las Vegas at one of the biggest financial conventions in the world which is called The Money Show.  Every bank and trading firm or financial software maker basically has a booth at The Money Show as its convention tours the world every year.  Armed with only 2 PCs and 8 monitors, me and my helper had non stop lines to see my algorithms and hear about the trading methodology I created for my students.  My partner couldn't go because someone had to keep the school running.  For three days straight our cheap booth was slammed as firms like Ameritrade and Bank Of America watched in shock from their 100k dollar booths.  My suits were better than theirs though.  Then Trump started calling us.


2013 - During the final months of winding down T3 I picked up a client that owned a small custom cabinet shop and started to design their cabinets and the blueprint layouts for the homes they were working on. I have been designing cabinets and home interiors ever since.


Between shutting down T3 and starting at Monex I also worked with an RIA and developed an investment insurance model using CMOs.  It was very complicated to understand and no clients came from the marketing.  I still own the proprietary model.


While I was at Monex I went through a separation from my son's mother and decided to leave finance to focus on my young son, who was only 4 at the time, and I did not want him to be affected by the separation or his life changed dramatically.


To accomplish this I decided to work from home and make a deal with the client I was designing cabinets for.  The deal was 5k down, and I will do all of the marketing, lead generation and design for his shop for only 5% across the board as long as I can work from home and get my son everyday from school.  He agreed and I have been an independent cabinet, interior designer, marketer and lead generator since.  Most of my work has been from that cabinet shop and a few other local ones. I have also had my own clients for interior design and I have placed several tradesmen on multi-unit sites I have designed simply because they needed the work and I am not interested in actually being a part of the construction side at this time.


After the first year and a half of having the shop as a client, I had the owner of the cabinet shop hire my only protege full time as the shops admin and project manager so I could direct him on how to create a turnkey process in house for mass manufacturing custom cabinets on an assembly line that matches my turn key sales and design system that happens on the front end.  Custom cabinets are usually built on site and take a long time. I invented a proprietary process that allows us to make them much faster, more efficiently and with less mistakes.


As of today, after 3.5 years of creating construction leads, my system has produced over 3k leads for just Orange County. My finger is on the pulse of the biggest projects in the area and I know how to inject myself into the conversation with anyone I want working on the project so I can get involved in anyway I would like from design to construction if I so choose to. I also have tuned my lead system for wholesale real estate and wholesale luxury products like rare cars, art, airplanes and for high end camera wholesaling. (My friend works for one of the biggest camera companies in the world back in NJ so I tuned up the lead gen system for him to find camera leads.  His dept moves around $250k in cameras a month and when I have time i'm going to help him double that number)


After 7 years of cabinet design and recoding my system to the way I think is most efficient while keeping the highest industry standards, my design system is almost fully automated and can also be used for VR, AR, lifesize projections of cabinets and most interiors and exteriors, CNC machining, 3D printing, Alloys, wood, etc.  Automated bidding and price comparison of anything listed on an architectural print is also able to be coded into it. The 3D renderings and VR my system generates can go as high as 8k resolution and in Dec the new graphics cards coming out will allow the resolution to be up to 30 times greater than what I can do now.  What my system accomplishes in a few hours with just one person running it takes the rest of the industry at least a few days and multiple people.  Also my system is able to quickly identify architectural mistakes faster than anything in the industry so it is an incredible risk assessment tool for developers.  And it's not even fully coded yet, bc im slammed with work and no time to finish it.  


In 3.5 years I have marketed and designed about 350 homes.  Almost all of those homes are along the OC Coast and worth at least 2 Million Dollars and up.  No one in the industry knows I exist because I do not market myself as an interior designer.  My personal interior design clients are customers of the cabinet shop I found and they ask me to be their interior designer and sometimes they even want me to handle all of the construction as well, which I can do at this time.  My designs are anonymously behind homes in affluent neighborhoods and locations like Big Canyon, Newport Coast, Corona Del Mar, Laguna Beach, Lido Condos Laguna Coast, Ritz Cove, Seal Beach,  Monarch Bay, Emerald Bay, Downtown Huntington Beach, UCLA College, Coto De Caza, Rossmore, Ladera Ranch, Newport Beach, Dana Point, The Strand Beach in Dana Point, San Clemente etc etc


Just since Jan of 2020 I have already designed 35 homes and those were all marketed and sold by me in the month of Jan.  I have been too busy to even turn on my sales system again since Jan. Even through the COVID-19 pandemic of 2020, which has caused a worldwide shutdown, and has created one of the largest unemployment and economic drops in modern economics worldwide, my designs and marketing have kept myself, the owner of the cabinet shop, and the 14 people who work there all employed full time.  We haven't slowed down at all.  


A Lot of the other custom cabinet shops and interior designers that used to be my competition are not open now or they simply aren't able to function.


Right now I am on schedule and on my birthday (May 4th) I am going to turn back on my proprietary sales and lead gen system for the first time in months, with much less competition, if any at all.  And I will be turning on all of the extras for the first time that I have been working on for multiple assets over the last 8 years.


If my sales system produces a steady flow again, I am going to quickly focus it on Silicon Valley, San Francisco, Beverly Hills and Hollywood Hills.  I created the system to work nationwide.  I have only tried it in Orange County so far and above are the results.


May The 4th Be With You!
FIN
-The Tony
Update 725
14 houses needed to be designed, i oversold too much for myself to draw, pivoting
Became official ihss caretaker